# Overview
**Title:** Extraction of Chemical Structures and Reactions from the Literature<br>
**Authors:** Daniel M. Lowe<br>
**Keywords:** `uspto`, `chemical-reactions`, `data`


# Publications
**Main Publication Date:** 2012/10/09<br>
**Main Publication Link:** [Apollo - University of Cambridge Repository](https://www.repository.cam.ac.uk/items/dbb4f258-8f3c-4b59-9b5c-62fac7ca8c28)<br>
**Data Source Links:** [USPTO (1976-2013)](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Legacy_reaction_extraction_data_1976-2013_/12084729)
| [USPTO (1976-2016)](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Chemical_reactions_from_US_patents_1976-Sep2016_/5104873)


## Main Publication Abstract
The ever-increasing quantity of chemical literature necessitates the creation of automated techniques for extracting
relevant information. This work focuses on two aspects: the conversion of chemical names to computer readable structure
representations and the extraction of chemical reactions from text. Chemical names are a common way of communicating
chemical structure information. OPSIN (Open Parser for Systematic IUPAC Nomenclature), an open source, freely available
algorithm for converting chemical names to structures was developed. OPSIN employs a regular grammar to direct
tokenisation and parsing leading to the generation of an XML parse tree. Nomenclature operations are applied
successively to the tree with many requiring the manipulation of an in-memory connection table representation of the
structure under construction. Areas of nomenclature supported are described with attention being drawn to difficulties
that may be encountered in name to structure conversion. Results on sets of generated names and names extracted from
patents are presented. On generated names, recall of between 96.2% and 99.0% was achieved with a lower bound of 97.9% on
precision with all results either being comparable or superior to the tested commercial solutions. On the patent names
OPSIN s recall was 2-10% higher than the tested solutions when the patent names were processed as found in the patents.
The uses of OPSIN as a web service and as a tool for identifying chemical names in text are shown to demonstrate the
direct utility of this algorithm. A software system for extracting chemical reactions from the text of chemical patents
was developed. The system relies on the output of ChemicalTagger, a tool for tagging words and identifying phrases of
importance in experimental chemistry text. Improvements to this tool required to facilitate this task are documented.
The structure of chemical entities are where possible determined using OPSIN in conjunction with a dictionary of name to
structure relationships. Extracted reactions are atom mapped to confirm that they are chemically consistent. 424,621
atom mapped reactions were extracted from 65,034 organic chemistry USPTO patents. On a sample of 100 of these extracted
reactions chemical entities were identified with 96.4% recall and 88.9% precision. Quantities could be associated with
reagents in 98.8% of cases and 64.9% of cases for products whilst the correct role was assigned to chemical entities in
91.8% of cases. Qualitatively the system captured the essence of the reaction in 95% of cases. This system is expected
to be useful in the creation of searchable databases of reactions from chemical patents and in facilitating analysis of
the properties of large populations of reactions.
