# Overview
**Title:** Predicting Organic Reaction Outcomes with Weisfeiler-Lehman Network<br>
**Authors:** Wengong Jin, Connor W. Coley, Regina Barzilay, Tommi S. Jaakkola<br>
**Keywords:** `chemical-reactions`, `data`


# Publications
**Main Publication Date:** 2017/12/29<br>
**Main Publication Link:** [NeurIPS](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2017/hash/ced556cd9f9c0c8315cfbe0744a3baf0-Abstract.html)<br>
**Alternative Publication Links:** [ACM Digital Library](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/3294996.3295021) |
[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.04555)<br>
**Code Links:** [Official GitHub Repository](https://github.com/wengong-jin/nips17-rexgen)


## Main Publication Abstract
The prediction of organic reaction outcomes is a fundamental problem in computational chemistry. Since a reaction may
involve hundreds of atoms, fully exploring the space of possible transformations is intractable. The current solution
utilizes reaction templates to limit the space, but it suffers from coverage and efficiency issues. In this paper, we
propose a template-free approach to efficiently explore the space of product molecules by first pinpointing the reaction
center - the set of nodes and edges where graph edits occur. Since only a small number of atoms contribute to reaction
center, we can directly enumerate candidate products. The generated candidates are scored by a Weisfeiler-Lehman
Difference Network that models high-order interactions between changes occurring at nodes across the molecule. Our
framework outperforms the top-performing template-based approach with a 10% margin, while running orders of magnitude
faster. Finally, we demonstrate that the model accuracy rivals the performance of domain experts.
