# Overview
**Title:** Automated De Novo Molecular Design by Hybrid Machine Intelligence and Rule-driven Chemical Synthesis<br>
**Authors:** Alexander Button, Daniel Merk, Jan A. Hiss, Gisbert Schneider<br>
**Publication Date:** 2019/07/01<br>
**Publication Link:** [Nature Machine Intelligence](https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-019-0067-7)<br>
**Alternative Publication Links:** [ETH Zürich Research Collection](https://www.research-collection.ethz.ch/handle/20.500.11850/377338)


# Abstract
Chemical creativity in the design of new synthetic chemical entities (NCEs) with drug-like properties has been the
domain of medicinal chemists. Here, we explore the capability of a chemistry-savvy machine intelligence to generate
synthetically accessible molecules. DINGOS (design of innovative NCEs generated by optimization strategies) is a virtual
assembly method that combines a rule-based approach with a machine learning model trained on successful synthetic routes
described in chemical patent literature. This unique combination enables a balance between ligand-similarity-based
generation of innovative compounds by scaffold hopping and the forward-synthetic feasibility of the designs. In a
prospective proof-of-concept application, DINGOS successfully produced sets of de novo designs for four approved drugs
that were in agreement with the desired structural and physicochemical properties. Target prediction indicated more than
50% of the designs to be biologically active. Four selected computer-generated compounds were successfully synthesized
in accordance with the synthetic route proposed by DINGOS. The results of this study demonstrate the capability of
machine learning models to capture implicit chemical knowledge from chemical reaction data and suggest feasible
syntheses of new chemical matter.
